Curator's note: Prefer the human-authored MLX guides for clarity. - ../docs\\\\\\\_curated/README.md - ../docs\\\\\\\_curated/PYTORCH\\\\\\\_DISSONANCE.md - ../docs\\\\\\\_curated/NUMPY\\\\\\\_USERS.md - ../docs\\\\\\\_curated/COMMON\\\\\\\_PITFALLS.md \\\\## Curated Notes - Sanity check local run first: \\\\\\\`mlx.launch -n 2 your\\\\\\\_script.py\\\\\\\`. - Ensure passwordless SSH between hosts; sync Python env and script paths across machines. - Set env vars per rank when needed: \\\\\\\`WORLD\\\\\\\_SIZE\\\\\\\`, \\\\\\\`RANK\\\\\\\`, \\\\\\\`MASTER\\\\\\\_ADDR\\\\\\\`, \\\\\\\`MASTER\\\\\\\_PORT\\\\\\\` (some backends infer these automatically). \\\[\\\](https://github.com/ml-explore/mlx "Source repository")\\\\- \\\[.rst\\\](https://ml-explore.github.io/mlx/build/html/\\\_sources/usage/launching\\\_distributed.rst "Download source file") - .pdf # Launching Distributed Programs ## Contents \\\\- \\\[Usage\\\](https://ml-explore.github.io/mlx/build/html/#usage) - \\\[Providing Hosts\\\](https://ml-explore.github.io/mlx/build/html/#providing-hosts) - \\\[Setting up Remote Hosts\\\](https://ml-explore.github.io/mlx/build/html/#setting-up-remote-hosts) - \\\[MPI Specifics\\\](https://ml-explore.github.io/mlx/build/html/#mpi-specifics) - \\\[Ring Specifics\\\](https://ml-explore.github.io/mlx/build/html/#ring-specifics) # Launching Distributed Programs Installing the MLX python package provides a helper script \\\`\\\\\\\`mlx.launch\\\\\\\`\\\` that can be used to run python scripts distributed on several nodes. It allows launching using either the MPI backend or the ring backend. See the \\\[distributed docs\\\](https://ml-explore.github.io/mlx/build/html/usage/distributed.html) for the different backends. ## Usage The minimal usage example of \\\`\\\\\\\`mlx.launch\\\\\\\`\\\` is simply \\\`\\\`\\\`shell mlx.launch --hosts ip1,ip2 my\\\_script.py \\\`\\\`\\\` or for testing on localhost \\\`\\\`\\\`shell mlx.launch -n 2 my\\\_script.py \\\`\\\`\\\` The \\\`\\\\\\\`mlx.launch\\\\\\\`\\\` command connects to the provided host and launches the input script on each host. It monitors each of the launched processes and terminates the rest if one of them fails unexpectedly or if \\\`\\\\\\\`mlx.launch\\\\\\\`\\\` is terminated. It also takes care of forwarding the output of each remote process to stdout and stderr respectively. ### Providing Hosts Hosts can be provided as command line arguments, like above, but the way that allows to fully define a list of hosts is via a JSON hostfile. The hostfile has a very simple schema. It is simply a list of objects that define each host via a hostname to ssh to and a list of IPs to utilize for the communication. \\\`\\\`\\\`json \\\[ {"ssh": "hostname1", "ips": \\\["123.123.1.1", "123.123.2.1"\\\]}, {"ssh": "hostname2", "ips": \\\["123.123.1.2", "123.123.2.2"\\\]} \\\] \\\`\\\`\\\` You can use \\\`\\\\\\\`mlx.distributed\\\\\\\_config\\\\\\\`\\\`\\\\\\\` \\\\\\\`\\\`\\\\\\\`--over\\\\\\\`\\\`\\\\\\\` \\\\\\\`\\\`\\\\\\\`ethernet\\\\\\\`\\\` to create a hostfile with IPs corresponding to the \\\`\\\\\\\`en0\\\\\\\`\\\` interface. ### Setting up Remote Hosts In order to be able to launch the script on each host we need to be able to connect via ssh. Moreover the input script and python binary need to be on each host and on the same path. A good checklist to debug errors is the following: - \\\`\\\\\\\`ssh\\\\\\\`\\\`\\\\\\\` \\\\\\\`\\\`\\\\\\\`hostname\\\\\\\`\\\` works without asking for password or host confirmation - the python binary is available on all hosts at the same path. You can use \\\`\\\\\\\`mlx.launch\\\\\\\`\\\`\\\\\\\` \\\\\\\`\\\`\\\\\\\`--print-python\\\\\\\`\\\` to see what that path is. - the script you want to run is available on all hosts at the same path ## MPI Specifics One can use MPI by passing \\\`\\\\\\\`--backend\\\\\\\`\\\`\\\\\\\` \\\\\\\`\\\`\\\\\\\`mpi\\\\\\\`\\\` to \\\`\\\\\\\`mlx.launch\\\\\\\`\\\`. In that case, \\\`\\\\\\\`mlx.launch\\\\\\\`\\\` is a thin wrapper over \\\`\\\\\\\`mpirun\\\\\\\`\\\`. Moreover, - The IPs in the hostfile are ignored - The ssh connectivity requirement is stronger as every node needs to be able to connect to every other node - \\\`\\\\\\\`mpirun\\\\\\\`\\\` needs to be available on every node at the same path Finally, one can pass arguments to \\\`\\\\\\\`mpirun\\\\\\\`\\\` using \\\`\\\\\\\`--mpi-arg\\\\\\\`\\\`. For instance to choose a specific interface for the byte-transfer-layer of MPI we can call \\\`\\\\\\\`mlx.launch\\\\\\\`\\\` as follows: \\\`\\\`\\\`shell mlx.launch --backend mpi --mpi-arg '--mca btl\\\_tcp\\\_if\\\_include en0' --hostfile hosts.json my\\\_script.py \\\`\\\`\\\` ## Ring Specifics The ring backend, which is also the default backend, can be explicitly selected with the argument \\\`\\\\\\\`--backend\\\\\\\`\\\`\\\\\\\` \\\\\\\`\\\`\\\\\\\`ring\\\\\\\`\\\`. The ring backend has some specific requirements and arguments that are different to MPI: - The argument \\\`\\\\\\\`--hosts\\\\\\\`\\\` only accepts IPs and not hostnames. If we need to ssh to a hostname that does not correspond to the IP we want to bind to we have to provide a hostfile. - \\\`\\\\\\\`--starting-port\\\\\\\`\\\` defines the port to bind to on the remote hosts. Specifically rank 0 for the first IP will use this port and each subsequent IP or rank will add 1 to this port. - \\\`\\\\\\\`--connections-per-ip\\\\\\\`\\\` allows us to increase the number of connections between neighboring nodes. This corresponds to \\\`\\\\\\\`--mca\\\\\\\`\\\`\\\\\\\` \\\\\\\`\\\`\\\\\\\`btl\\\\\\\_tcp\\\\\\\_links\\\\\\\`\\\`\\\\\\\` \\\\\\\`\\\`\\\\\\\`2\\\\\\\`\\\` for \\\`\\\\\\\`mpirun\\\\\\\`\\\`. Contents \\\\- \\\[Usage\\\](https://ml-explore.github.io/mlx/build/html/#usage) - \\\[Providing Hosts\\\](https://ml-explore.github.io/mlx/build/html/#providing-hosts) - \\\[Setting up Remote Hosts\\\](https://ml-explore.github.io/mlx/build/html/#setting-up-remote-hosts) - \\\[MPI Specifics\\\](https://ml-explore.github.io/mlx/build/html/#mpi-specifics) - \\\[Ring Specifics\\\](https://ml-explore.github.io/mlx/build/html/#ring-specifics) By MLX Contributors © Copyright 2023, MLX Contributors.
